Research Opportunities
Research-Related Courses
The OMSCS program currently hosts two explicitly research-related courses:

CS 8803 O23: Modern Internet Research Methods
CS 8803 O24: Intro to Research
Additionally, students who are interested in engaging in research-related activities can take project-based courses that allow for a research-style component or build towards something that could eventually spin off into independent research. These include:

CS 6150: Computing for Good
CS 6460: Educational Technology
CS 6675: Advanced Internet Systems and Applications
CS 7643: Deep Learning
As with the on-campus degree program, OMSCS students can take independent research credits (CS 8903), pursue a thesis or project-based masters (CS 6999) with faculty approval and oversight, and participate in Vertically Integrated Projects (VIPs).

Research-Related Seminars
The OMSCS program currently hosts three annual seminars that are explicitly focused on research:

CS 8001 OPH: PhD Applicants (Every Fall)
In this seminar, led by Dr. Nick Lytle, students planning to apply for PhD programs for the following Fall semester will meet to review statements of purpose, discuss application processes, and discuss PhD prospects.
CS 8001 ORS: PhD Research Brown Bag (Every Spring)
In this seminar, led by Dr. Nick Lytle, students hear research talks from current graduate students at Georgia Tech and get to ask questions about their PhD experience and research.
CS 8001 ORW: Writing Research Workshop (Schedule TBD)
In this seminar, led by Bobbie Eicher, students receive formative feedback on their academic writing to better prepare them for a conference or journal submission.
Additionally, many other seminars allow students to explore cutting edge research and progress in computing disciplines in a less formal setting through reading and discussing academic papers or other research materials. These include:

CS 8001 OLM: Large Language Model
CS 8001 OML: Machine Learning for Sensor-Based Human Activity Recognition: A Research Perspective
CS 8001 ORI: Robotics and Human-Robot Interaction
CS 8001 OST: Social Media and Technology
Independent Research Opportunities
Opportunities for independent research include both student self-directed options as well as explicitly listed and advertised opportunities. Before the start of each semester, we email OMSCS students a list of research projects that are seeking students hosted by faculty. An application page allows students to express interest; faculty will then select students and reach out to them to sign up for an independent study credit (CS 8903, etc.). Other advertised opportunities are listed on the OMSCS Ed Discussion board and emailed to the OMSCS student list serv.

Vertically Integrated Projects (VIPs)
The Vertically Integrated Projects (VIP) Program is "a transformative approach to enhancing higher education by engaging undergraduate and graduate students in ambitious, long-term, large-scale, multidisciplinary project teams that are led by faculty". Students can sign up for credit or volunteer on teams. More information about the program and a list of teams can be found on the VIP website.

OMSCS-to-Ph.D.
We have dozens of success stories of OMSCS students who pursued Ph.D. programs after OMSCS. Students who successfully transition from an M.S. to Ph.D. take advantage of (and create their own) research opportunities. We are working to expand offerings to allow a larger number of opportunities for OMSCS students to gain experience in cutting edge research in a larger set of CS research areas.

Research Assistantships
While rare, there is nothing stopping an OMSCS student from taking advantage of the same hiring opportunities as on-campus masters students, including research assistantships. Check opportunities through individual labs and research center websites.

Research Funding
Beginning in Fall 2025, students and alumni who have their research accepted to a reputable conference, or a journal for publishing in a peer-reviewed volume, are eligible to apply to have their conference registration or journal publication fees covered.

Research Opportunities Outside Georgia Tech
Students are able to use their own networks to find opportunities for research with collaborators outside of the department of computer science or outside of Georgia Tech completely. If the student would like to count this research towards an 8903 credit, they must find a department of computer science faculty advisor to co-advise and sponsor their project.

OMSCS Research Papers
Click here for a list of research papers authored by OMSCS students, and papers about the OMSCS program.