VI. Scholastic Regulations
A. Classification of Students
Undergraduate students, with the exception of non-degree-seeking students, shall be classified at the end of each academic term by the Office of the Registrar on the basis of the total number of attempted credit hours for which they have successfully earned credit in accordance with the following:
Classification of Students
Classification	Credit Hours
Freshman	0-29 credit hours
Sophomore	30-59 credit hours
Junior	60-89 credit hours
Senior	90+ credit hours
Graduate and special students who have completed all requirements for a particular classification, as defined by their major department, may request reclassification through their major department.
Students scheduled for at least twelve (12) credit hours in a semester are classified as full-time students; those scheduled for six to eleven (6-11) hours are classified as part-time students; and those scheduled for one to five (1-5) hours are classified as less-than-part-time students.
B. Eligibility for Class Rings
A student may purchase a class ring any time after successfully earning credit for 70 attempted credit hours.

C. Academic Standing
The assignment of academic standing is based on both the student's most recent academic term and their cumulative grade-point average.
The minimum satisfactory grade-point average (GPA) is 2.00 for all undergraduate students; 2.70 for master's and special graduate students; and, 3.00 for doctoral students.
Students not on academic probation are in good academic standing.
Academic warning
Academic warning is a subcategory of good academic standing, differing only in the maximum allowable schedule load.
A student who has a cumulative grade-point average below the minimum satisfactory scholarship requirement, or whose cumulative grade-point average for work taken during any term is below this requirement, shall be placed on academic warning.
A student on academic warning whose grade-point average for the academic term is above the minimum satisfactory scholarship requirement and cumulative grade-point average is below the minimum satisfactory scholarship requirement shall remain on academic warning.
A student on academic warning will be deemed in good academic standing and removed from academic warning if both the grade-point average for the academic term and the cumulative grade-point average are above the minimum satisfactory scholarship requirement.
In addition to the conditions on the grade-point average described above, doctoral students will also be placed on academic warning if they receive an unsatisfactory grade in research.
Academic probation
A student on academic warning whose grade-point average is below the minimum satisfactory scholarship requirement for any academic term shall be placed on academic probation.
An undergraduate student in good academic standing whose grade-point average for any academic term is below 1.00, based on at least six graded hours, shall be placed on academic probation.
A student also may be placed on academic probation through other actions, as described in the following section.
A student on academic probation will be deemed in good academic standing and removed from academic probation if both the grade-point average for the academic term and the cumulative grade-point average are above the minimum satisfactory scholarship requirement.
In addition to the conditions on the grade-point average described above, doctoral students will also be placed on academic probation if they receive an unsatisfactory grade in research for two consecutive terms of enrollment.
Dismissal for unsatisfactory scholarship
The Institute may drop from the rolls at any time a student whose record in scholarship is unsatisfactory.
A graduate student whose grade-point average for any term is 2.00 or below may be placed on academic probation or dropped, regardless of the student's previous record.
A student on academic probation whose grade-point average for the academic term of probation is below the minimum satisfactory scholarship requirement and whose cumulative grade-point average is below the minimum satisfactory scholarship requirement shall be dropped from the rolls for unsatisfactory scholarship.
An undergraduate student on academic warning whose grade-point average for any term is below 1.00, based on at least six graded hours, and cumulative grade-point average is below the minimum satisfactory scholarship requirement shall be dropped from the rolls for unsatisfactory scholarship.
The record of a student on academic probation whose grade-point average for the academic term in unsatisfactory, but whose overall academic record is satisfactory, may be reviewed by the Institute Undergraduate Curriculum Committee or the Institute Graduate Curriculum Committee, as appropriate. The student may be dropped or may be continued on academic probation.
Academic review
A student who normally would be dropped from the rolls for academic deficiencies, but appears from the record not to have completed the academic term, may be placed on academic review. This is a temporary standing that makes the student ineligible for registration. If no acceptable explanation is given within a reasonable time, the standing is changed to drop.
The academic standing regulations given previously for graduate students do not preclude a school from having more rigorous requirements.
D. Satisfactory Academic Progress Toward Degree Completion
Undergraduate Students.
Satisfactory academic progress toward degree completion means that for each term of enrollment, the student completes a course or courses with the minimum necessary grades that are either prerequisites for courses required in the major or that are degree applicable to stay on track towards graduation. It is noted that some majors may require a minimum grade that is higher than “D” in specified courses.
If a student does not make any progress toward degree completion during an academic term (by either not passing or earning minimum required grades or completing any courses that apply toward unfulfilled degree requirements in the major), they will be reviewed by their academic unit/major and a success plan for the next academic semester must be completed and submitted to the Registrar’s Office in the form of a departmental contract.
If a student fails to make any progress toward degree completion in the following term of enrollment, they may be placed on academic warning (regardless of grade point average).
If a student withdraws from all courses in a term, there will be no change in status. However, if a student withdraws from all courses in a second term of enrollment, they will be placed on warning for lack of satisfactory academic progress towards degree completion. If withdrawal occurs in a third term of enrollment, the status will be revised to probation. If withdrawal occurs in a fourth term of enrollment, the student will be placed on academic dismissal for lack of satisfactory progress towards degree completion. The number of withdrawal terms is cumulative and irrespective of whether they occur consecutively. Withdrawals either during the term or when approved retroactively through a petition to the faculty count for this purpose.
Students applying for readmission may be denied based on prior terms of withdrawals.
Eligibility for financial aid, NCAA Division I sports, etc. may be predicated on different satisfactory progress requirements.  Information on those requirements should be directed to the appropriate office on campus and should not be confused with this academic policy.
Graduate Students in Master’s Programs.
Students should plan to graduate well within six years from the time that they first enrolled in their master’s degree program.  Satisfactory academic progress toward degree completion means that within each academic year (summer-fall-spring), the student completes at least two courses with the minimum necessary grades required in the major or that are degree applicable to stay on track towards graduation.
If enrolled in a thesis program and taking thesis hours, the student must earn a satisfactory grade in thesis hours.
If the student exceeds the 6-year rule for degree completion, the program may place the student on academic Warning, Probation or Dismissal.
If a student does not make satisfactory degree progress toward degree completion during an academic year (by either not passing or earning minimum required grades, or by not completing two courses that apply toward unfulfilled degree requirements in the major), they will be reviewed by their academic unit/major and a success plan for the next academic semester must be completed and submitted to the Registrar’s Office in the form of a departmental contract.
If a student fails to make any progress toward degree completion in the following term of enrollment, they may be placed on academic warning (regardless of grade point average).
If a student withdraws courses in a consistent manner or withdraws from all courses in a term in a consistent manner, the program will review the student’s record each term and adjust academic standing as needed with the Registrar’s Office. A student could be placed on academic Warning, Probation, or Dismissal depending on the pattern(s) of course and term withdrawals. Students applying for readmission may be denied based on prior terms of withdrawals.
Eligibility for financial aid, NCAA Division I sports, etc. may be predicated on different satisfactory progress requirements.  Information on those requirements should be directed to the appropriate office on campus and should not be confused with this academic policy.
Graduate Students in Doctoral Programs
Doctoral students should plan to complete their degree requirements in a timely manner, and must complete the degree within seven years of passing the comprehensive exam as stated in Requirements for the Doctoral Degree. While the Admission to Candidacy should generally be completed within the first three years of entering the program, different degree programs may have specific timelines for which students must complete degree milestones. For Satisfactory Academic Progress, a student must be in good academic standing and meet at least one of the conditions below during an academic term in residence:
Successfully completed at least 6 credit hours of coursework that count towards their degree in their prior academic term in residence.
Register for course credit for research, typically 9000 thesis hours, and receive satisfactory grades in these hours. Gaps in research advisors, for example due to switching advisors, may occur and are normally done with some oversight or advising from the academic program.
Complete a non-coursework degree requirement in the current or preceding academic term in residence (for example, completing the RCR requirement, passing the comprehensive exam, being admitted to candidacy, or submitting or defending their thesis).
Participate in a registered internship.
The degree programs may have additional conditions specifying satisfactory academic degree progress that are more rigorous.
Students who do not make satisfactory progress in their research must receive advising on their degree progress from their research advisor and at least one other source, typically their dissertation committee or the director or coordinator of their graduate program. This advising must include a performance improvement plan that lists tasks and goals to be met within a specified timeline. This performance improvement plan must also state the consequences if these tasks and goals are not met within the set timeline.
Doctoral students who have been in the program for more than six years should work with their advisor and committee to make a project plan, including tasks and a timeline, to complete their degree in a timely manner.
Eligibility for financial aid, NCAA Division I sports, etc. may be predicated on different satisfactory progress requirements. Information on those requirements should be directed to the appropriate office on campus and should not be confused with this academic policy.
E. Maximum Schedule Load
The maximum number of credit hours for which an undergraduate student may register in a Fall Semester or Spring Semester, based on their academic standing, is as follows:
Schedule Load
Academic Standing	Maximum Schedule Load
Good	21 credit hours
Warning	16 credit hours
Probation	14 credit hours
The maximum number of credit hours for which an undergraduate student may register in a regular Summer Session, based on their academic standing, is as follows:
Schedule Load
Academic Standing	Maximum Schedule Load
Good	16 credit hours
Warning	14credit hours
Probation	12 credit hours
Students who are on probation from dismissal are required to enroll in and successfully complete GT 2100 as indicated in a student's academic contract. This course does not count toward degree requirements nor would it count against the maximum course loads listed above.
A graduate student may register for a maximum of 21 credit hours in a Fall Semester or Spring Semester and a maximum of 16 credit hours during a regular Summer Session.
Requests for schedule overloads must be recommended by the student's major school and approved by the Institute Undergraduate Curriculum Committee or Institute Graduate Curriculum Committee, as appropriate.
During Phase 1 Registration, the Institute reserves the right to limit undergraduate students to 18 credits maximum for the Fall Semester and Spring Semester and to limit graduate students to less than 21 credit hours depending upon the needs of the program or school.
F. Academic Honors
The Institute encourages excellence in scholarship and gives official recognition to undergraduate students whose work is superior in any given academic term.

Dean's List
Full-time Students. The Dean's List includes all degree-seeking undergraduates who, during the preceding academic term, earned a grade-point average (GPA) of 3.00 or higher, completed a schedule of at least twelve credit hours of coursework on a letter-grade basis, and are not on academic warning or probation or subject to any disciplinary action. All grades must be reported.
Part-time Students. The Part-time Dean's List for students enrolled in less than 12 hours includes all degree-seeking undergraduates who, during the preceding academic term, earned a grade-point average (GPA) of 3.00 or higher, completed a schedule of at least three credit hours of coursework on a letter-grade basis, and are not on academic warning or probation or subject to any disciplinary action. All grades must be reported.
Faculty Honors
Faculty Honors includes all degree-seeking undergraduates who, during the preceding academic term, earned a grade-point average (GPA) of 4.00, completed a schedule of at least twelve credit hours of coursework on a letter-grade basis with no "W" grades, and are not on academic warning or probation or subject to any disciplinary action. All grades must be reported.
G. Change of Major
Undergraduate students, by filing the required form, will be permitted one unrestricted transfer between majors until they have accumulated credit for sixty hours (this includes AP, IB, and other types of transfer credit including courses taken at Georgia Tech). After sixty hours or upon subsequent request for transfer, the transfer will be permitted at the discretion of the school that the student is seeking to enter. Students who transfer from another institution to pursue a degree at Georgia Tech will be permitted to change their major only at the discretion of the school that the student is seeking to enter. Transfer students are not eligible for the one unrestricted change of major.

The Institute reserves the right to limit access to programs due to capacity or other issues that affect how many students can be accommodated in that program. Should a School wish to limit access to a program, permission must be sought from the Provost’s Office and, if granted, the program website must place a notice on its website with an effective date. The Office of the Registrar will be notified when the approval is granted and will place a notice in a visible location on its website as well. Before deciding about a change of major, the student should consult with the academic advisor in the new major to determine if any restrictions are in place at that time.

Some programs have existing change-of-major conditions due to grade, GPA, or other requirements such as presentation of a portfolio that may limit change of major.

Industrial and Systems Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Music Technology
Computer Science (Due to high demand, the conditions are placed on incoming first-year students beginning Summer 2024.)
Other programs that wish to implement similar conditions must first propose the change to the Institute Undergraduate Curriculum Committee.

Graduate students, by filing the required form, may transfer with the concurrence of the schools involved and the graduate dean.
Students who change their majors must complete the degree requirements in the Catalog that was effective for the term in which the change of major became official, or any subsequent Catalog.
Admitted first-year students must confirm their major in their Admission Portal after paying their enrollment deposit and prior to FASET Orientation. Visit the admission website for details.
H. Exceptions
Exceptions to these scholastic regulations may be made by the Institute Undergraduate Curriculum Committee or the Institute Graduate Curriculum Committee, as appropriate, whenever a consideration of the student's complete record indicates that the application of a specific regulation will result in injustice.

I. Course Requirements
Each course shall have a syllabus and course policies provided to students before the first class meeting (See Section XXII).
In all courses, faculty are expected to return to students a graded assignment or other meaningful performance feedback prior to the deadline for withdrawing from classes so that students can make an informed decision about withdrawing or changing the grade mode.
Midterm Progress Report (MPR) grades of "S" or "U" are required to be submitted for all 1000- and 2000-level classes and are optional for all 3000-level and above classes. All MPR grades are due to the Office of the Registrar once 40 percent of the academic term has passed. The exact due date is specified in the official Academic Calendar. For information about MPR grades, please see https://catalog.gatech.edu/policies/grading-gpa/grading-system/.
Students shall not be penalized if they cannot attend instructional, lab, or examination sessions that are not institutionally scheduled in accordance with the standard protocols.
Students shall have the opportunity to review graded material in a timely fashion and with reasonable access to grading instruments and/or grading criteria for individual assignments, projects, or exams.